Service Bus Migration Guide improvements (#14166)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-net: sdk/servicebus/Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus/MigrationGuide.md

The modern Service Bus client library provides the ability to share in some of the cross-service improvements made to the Azure development experience, such as using the new `Azure.Identity` library to share a single authentication between clients and a unified diagnostics pipeline offering a common view of the activities across each of the client libraries. 

> While we believe that there is significant benefit to adopting the modern version of the Service Bus library, it is important to be aware that the legacy version has not been officially deprecated. It will continue to be supported with security and bug fixes as well as receiving some minor refinements. However, in the near future it will not be under active development and new features are unlikely to be added.

Reviewer: Not sure that I agree with the removal in this paragraph.   Would you be kind enough to share the rationale behind this change?

Author: I see this statement giving a knee jerk reaction to someone reading it. 

Am guessing the intention here was that moving forward, the modern library would have features that are not guaranteed to be in the legacy version?
My concern is that this can be misunderstood to be the other way around i.e. the modern library will not have the same features as the legacy one

Reviewer 2: Two points to consider. When you say "legacy client" there are two of those. Be specific or elaborate. The statement should be there to warn about breaking changes. If someone relies on the pipelines, they won't be able to move to track 2 SDK as it has no support for message pipelines. At no point it should be a surprise.

Author: Improved in https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/pull/14166/commits/26be38e6a9a72f2d16b6132ce0aad5617010c374 by referencing the SDKs by name

### Client hierarchy

> In the interest of simplifying the API surface we've made a single top level client called `ServiceBusClient`, rather than one for each of queue, topic, subscription and session. This acts as the single entry point in contrast with six different entry points in the previous library. You can create senders and receivers off of this client to the queue/topic/subscription/session of your choice and start sending/receiving messages.

Reviewer: nit:  `in the previous library` doesn't seem to add much and could be interpreted as pointing fingers at the old library.

Author: I do want to show the difference in the number of entry points... Updated in https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/pull/14166/commits/a02534f2b496a08d65a71effcf9e7d1de7136f1c

#### Approachability

> By having a single entry point, the `ServiceBusClient` helps with the discoverability of the API as you can dot into the client and see all the available methods as opposed to searching through documentation or exploring namespace for the types that you can instantiate. Whether sending or receiving, or using sessions or not, users will start their applications by constructing the same client.

Reviewer: nit:  This doesn't read correctly to me. - specifically, I don't think we want to use  `dot` as a verb.  We probably don't want to exclude properties from that statement.  Perhaps something like:

`... you can use your IDE to explore the members...`

Author: fair point, I was shamelessly piggy backing on @JoshLove-msft's work from another issue :)
Updated in https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/pull/14166/commits/a02534f2b496a08d65a71effcf9e7d1de7136f1c

 
#### Consistency
Having similar methods to create senders, receivers and receivers for individual sessions on the same client provides consistency and predictability on the various features of the library. We have attempted to have the session/non-session usage be as seamless as possible. This allows users to make less changes to their code when they want to move from sessions to non-sessions or the other way around.
 

> #### Resource usage

Author: Done in https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/pull/14166/commits/26be38e6a9a72f2d16b6132ce0aad5617010c374

> By using a single top-level client, we can implicitly share a single AMQP connection for all operations that an application performs. In the previous library, connection sharing was implicit when using the `SessionClient`, but when using other clients, users would need to explicitly pass in a `ServiceBusConnection` object in order to share a connection. By making this sharing be implicit to a ServiceBusClient instance, we can help ensure that applications will not use multiple connections unless they explicitly opt in by creating multiple `ServiceBusClient` instances.

Reviewer: nit:  I'd suggest removing `AMQP` here; it doesn't add value as the protocol is irrelevant.

 

### Client constructors

While we continue to support connection strings when constructing a client, the main difference is in using Azure Active Directory.
We now use the new `Azure.Identity` library to share a single authentication solution between clients of different Azure services.

> ```cs

Reviewer: Does this work?   I've seen `c#` and `csharp` as valid.  I've never seen `cs` used before....

Reviewer 3: Yeah me neither - but I looked at the markdown and it looks fine.

// Create a ServiceBusClient that will authenticate through Active Directory

> string fullyQualifiedNamespace = "yournamespace.servicebus.windows.net";

Reviewer: These should probably be driven off of snippets.

Author: @JoshLove-msft will add the code snippets in a separate review

string connectionString = "Endpoint=sb://yournamespace.servicebus.windows.net/;SharedAccessKeyName=your-key-name;SharedAccessKey=your-key";
ServiceBusClient client = new ServiceBusClient(connectionString);
```

### Sending messages

In v4, you could send messages either by using a `QueueClient` (or `TopicClient` if you are targetting a topic) or the `MessageSender`.
While the `QueueClient` supported the simple send operation, the `MessageSender` supported that and advanced scenarios like scheduling to send messages
at a later time and cancelling such scheduled messages.

```cs
// create a message to send
Message message = new Message(Encoding.Default.GetBytes("Hello world!"));

// send using the QueueClient
QueueClient queueClient = new QueueClient(connectionString, queueName);
await queueClient.SendAsync(message);

// send using the MessageSender
MessageSender sender = new MessageSender(connectionString, queueName);
await sender.SendAsync(message);
```

In v7, we combine all the send related features under a common class `ServiceBusSender` that you can create off of the top level client using the `CreateSender()` method.

> This provides a single stop shop for all your send related needs. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This provides a one stop shop for all your send related needs. 
```

While we continue to support sending bytes in the message, if you are working with strings, you can now create a message directly without having to convert it to bytes first.

```cs
// create the client
var client = new ServiceBusClient(connectionString);

// create the sender
ServiceBusSender sender = client.CreateSender(queueName);

// create a message to send
ServiceBusMessage message = new ServiceBusMessage("Hello world!");

// send the message
await sender.SendMessageAsync(message);
```

While we continue to support sending a list of messages in a single call, this feature has always had the potential to fail unexpectedly when the messages exceeded the size limit of the sender.
To help with this, we now provide a safe way to batch multiple messages to be sent at once using the new `ServiceBusMessageBatch` class.

```cs
ServiceBusMessageBatch messageBatch = await sender.CreateMessageBatchAsync();

for (var i = 0; i < 10; i++)
{
    // create a message

>     ServiceBusMessage message = new ServiceBusMessage("Hello world!" + i);

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ServiceBusMessage message = new ServiceBusMessage($"Hello world! - {i}");
```

    // Add message the batch
    var tryAddResult = messageBatch.TryAddMessage((message);

>     if (!tryAddResult) {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    if (!tryAddResult)
    {
```

>       Console.WriteLine("Failed to add message number " + i);

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      Console.WriteLine($"Failed to add message number {i}");
```

await receiver.CompleteAsync(receivedMessage);
```

In v7, we introduce the concept of a "processor" which takes your message and error handlers to provide you a simple way to get started with processing your messages.
The concept of a "receiver" remains for users who need to have a more fine grained control over the receiving and settling messages.

```cs
// create the ServiceBusClient
var client = new ServiceBusClient(connectionString);

// define the message handler
async Task MessageHandler(ProcessMessageEventArgs args)
{
    Console.WriteLine(args.Message.Body.ToString());
}

// define the error handler
Task ErrorHandler(ProcessErrorEventArgs args)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"Message handler encountered an exception {args.Exception}.");
    return Task.CompletedTask;
}

// create a processor and register handlers that we can use to process the messages
ServiceBusProcessor processor = client.CreateProcessor(queueName);
processor.ProcessMessageAsync += MessageHandler;
processor.ProcessErrorAsync += ErrorHandler;

// start processing
await processor.StartProcessingAsync();

// Or receive using the receiver
var receiver = client.CreateReceiver(queueName);

> var receivedMessage = await receiver.ReceiveAsync();

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
var receivedMessage = await receiver.ReceiveMessageAsync();
```

> Console.WriteLine($"Received message with Body:{Encoding.UTF8.GetString(receivedMessage.Body)}");

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Console.WriteLine($"Received message with Body: {receivedMessage.Body}");
```

In v7, we simplfify this by giving session variants of the same methods and classes that are available when working with queues/subscriptions that do not have sessions enabled.

```cs
// create a processor to receive events from the next available session
ServiceBusProcessor processor = client.CreateSessionProcessor(queueName);

// create a processor to receive events from the given set of sessions
var options = new ServiceBusSessionProcessorOptions
{
    SessionIds = ["my-session", "your-session"],
};
ServiceBusProcessor processor = client.CreateSessionProcessor(queueName, options);

// create a processor to receive events from the 3 next available sessions
var options = new ServiceBusSessionProcessorOptions
{
    MaxConcurrentSessions = 3
};
ServiceBusProcessor processor = client.CreateSessionProcessor(queueName);
```

You have similar options when working with the receivers. Please note that creating a session receiver is an async operation because the library will need to get a lock on the session by connecting to the service first.

```cs
// create a receiver to receive events from the next available session

> await ServiceBusReceiver receiver = client.CreateSessionReceiver(queueName);

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ServiceBusSessionReceiver receiver = await client.CreateSessionReceiver(queueName);
```

// create a receiver to receive events from the given session
var options = new ServiceBusSessionReceiverOptions
{
    SessionId = "my-session"
};

> await ServiceBusReceiver receiver = client.CreateSessionReceiver(queueName, options);

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ServiceBusSessionReceiver receiver = await client.CreateSessionReceiver(queueName, options);
```

 
#### Connection Pooling
By using a single top-level client, we can implicitly share a single AMQP connection for all operations that an application performs. In the previous library `Microsoft.Azure.ServiceBus`, connection sharing was implicit when using the `SessionClient`, but when using other clients, senders or receivers, you would need to explicitly pass in a `ServiceBusConnection` object in order to share a connection. 

By making this connection sharing be implicit to a `ServiceBusClient` instance, we can help ensure that applications will not use multiple connections unless they explicitly opt in by creating multiple `ServiceBusClient` instances. The mental model of 1 client - 1 connection is more intuitive than 1 client/sender/receiver - 1 connection.
 

### Client constructors

While we continue to support connection strings when constructing a client, the main difference is when using Azure Active Directory.

> We now use the new [Azure.Identity](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Identity) library to share a single authentication solution between clients of different Azure services.

Reviewer 4: There are a few places in the document where single paragraphs (like this) are split into multiple lines. Please keep paragraphs as a single line as it causes a disconnect between how the document is rendered versus viewing it raw. Basically, if it 1 paragraph, keep it as a single line. If you want line breaks, I recommend putting a `\` at the end of the line as it shows you intended a carriage return (and it renders appropriately in most markdown renderers).

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/pull/14166/commits/eac4cfc29b2950fe373cce3189ee517b9eba508a

### Client hierarchy

In the interest of simplifying the API surface we've made a single top level client called `ServiceBusClient`, rather than one for each of queue, topic, subscription and session. This acts as the single entry point in contrast with multiple entry points from before. You can create senders and receivers from this client to the queue/topic/subscription/session of your choice and start sending/receiving messages.

#### Approachability
By having a single entry point, the `ServiceBusClient` helps with the discoverability of the API as you can explore all available features through methods from a single client, as opposed to searching through documentation or exploring namespace for the types that you can instantiate. Whether sending or receiving, using sessions or not, you will start your applications by constructing the same client.
 
#### Consistency

> Having similarly named and structured methods to create senders, receivers and receivers for individual sessions on the same client provides consistency and predictability on the various features of the library. We have attempted to have the session/non-session usage be as seamless as possible. This allows you to make less changes to your code when you want to move from sessions to non-sessions or the other way around.

Reviewer 2: > Having similarly named and structured methods to create senders, receivers and receivers for individual sessions on the same client provides consistency and predictability on the various features of the library. 

What does it mean, "individual sessions"? I guess the idea was to provide an opening for the second sentence right after, but it's confusing in the first sentence.

Author: By "receivers for individual sessions", I meant what you used to get from the Track 1 `AcceptMessageSessionAsync()` method. I have reworded the sentence. Is the below more clear?

```suggestion
We now have methods with similar names, signature and location to create senders, receivers and receivers for separate sessions. This provides consistency and predictability on the various features of the library. We have attempted to have the session/non-session usage be as seamless as possible. This allows you to make less changes to your code when you want to move from sessions to non-sessions or the other way around.
```

Reviewer 2: Better. In the first sentence

> We now have methods with similar names, signature and location to create senders, receivers and receivers for separate sessions.

Is the intent to mention receivers for **specific** sessions?

Author: This is for the `createSessionReceiverAsync()` method that gives you a receiver for the session you asked for or if you havent specified a session, it gives you one for the next available one. 

I can skip the part on individual/separate sessions altogether. The following line talks about ease of moving from sessions to non sessions

```suggestion
We now have methods with similar names, signature and location to create senders and receivers. This provides consistency and predictability on the various features of the library. We have attempted to have the session/non-session usage be as seamless as possible. This allows you to make less changes to your code when you want to move from sessions to non-sessions or the other way around.
```

Reviewer 2: Yeah. Omitting that details might be easier to digest the paragraph. 👍 for the [latest suggestion](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/pull/14166#discussion_r486648489).

```cs
// create the QueueClient
QueueClient queueClient = new QueueClient(connectionString, queueName);

// define the message handler
async Task MessageHandler(Message message, CancellationToken token)
{
    // Process the message.
    Console.WriteLine($"Received message with Body:{Encoding.UTF8.GetString(message.Body)}");
}

// define the error handler
Task ErrorHandler(ExceptionReceivedEventArgs exceptionReceivedEventArgs)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"Message handler encountered an exception {exceptionReceivedEventArgs.Exception}.");
    return Task.CompletedTask;
}

// Configure the message handler options with the error handler
var messageHandlerOptions = new MessageHandlerOptions(ErrorHandler);

// Register the message handler and options
queueClient.RegisterMessageHandler(MessageHandler, messageHandlerOptions);

// Or receive using the receiver
var receiver = new MessageReceiver(connectionString, queueName);
var receivedMessage = await receiver.ReceiveAsync();
Console.WriteLine($"Received message with Body:{Encoding.UTF8.GetString(receivedMessage.Body)}");
await receiver.CompleteAsync(receivedMessage);
```

> Now in `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus`, we introduce the concept of a "processor" which takes your message and error handlers to provide you a simple way to get started with processing your messages. This provides a graceful shutdown via the `StopProcessingAsync` method which will ensure that no more messages will be received, but at the same time you can continue the prcoessing and settling the messages already in flight.

Reviewer 2: That's inaccurate. This option has existed both in track 0 and track 1.
What has been done are some improvements to make it more robust (stopping the handler/processor).

Author: Are you referring to the message and error handlers being available in track 0 and 1, or the shutdown that allows one to continue processing and settling messages in flight, but stop receiving more messages?

Reviewer 2: The earlier. Specifically, this sentence:
> Now in `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus`, we introduce the concept of a "processor" which takes your message and error handlers to provide you a simple way to get started with processing your messages.

The graceful shutdown is the improvement I've mentioned in my 2nd sentence.
> What has been done are some improvements to make it more robust (stopping the handler/processor).

Author: Understood. What I was going for was to note that there is a dedicated processor class for the said feature. How about the below?

```suggestion
Now in `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus`, we introduce a dedicated class `ServiceBusProcessor` which takes your message and error handlers to provide you the same simple way to get started with processing your messages with auto complete and auto lock renewal features. This also provides a graceful shutdown via the `StopProcessingAsync` method which will ensure that no more messages will be received, but at the same time you can continue the prcoessing and settling the messages already in flight.
```

Reviewer 2: Almost. When you say

> ...to provide you the same simple way to get started with processing your messages with auto complete and auto lock renewal features. 

you're missing something. "the same simple way" compared to what? 😀

How about this?

```suggestion
Now in `Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus`, we introduce a dedicated class `ServiceBusProcessor` which takes your message and error handlers to provide you with the same simple way to get started with processing your messages as message handlers in the previous packages, with auto-complete and auto-lock renewal features. This class also provides a graceful shutdown via the `StopProcessingAsync` method which will ensure that no more messages will be received, but at the same time you can continue the processing and settling the messages already in flight.
```

    return Task.CompletedTask;
}

// create a processor and register handlers that we can use to process the messages
ServiceBusProcessor processor = client.CreateProcessor(queueName);
processor.ProcessMessageAsync += MessageHandler;
processor.ProcessErrorAsync += ErrorHandler;

// start processing
await processor.StartProcessingAsync();

// Or receive using the receiver
var receiver = client.CreateReceiver(queueName);
var receivedMessage = await receiver.ReceiveMessageAsync();
Console.WriteLine($"Received message with Body: {receivedMessage.Body}");
await receiver.CompleteMessageAsync(receivedMessage);

```
### Working with sessions

Previously, in `Microsoft.Azure.ServiceBus`, you had the below options to receive messages from a session enabled queue/subscription
- Register message and error handlers using the `QueueClient.RegisterSessionHandler()` method to receive messages from an available set of sessions 
- Use the `SessionClient.AcceptMessageSessionAsync()` method to get an instance of the `MessageSession` class that will be tied to a given sessionId or to the next available session if no sessionId is provided.

> While the first option is similar to what you would do in a non session scenario, the second that allows you finer grained control is very different from any other pattern used in the library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While the first option is similar to what you would do in a non-session scenario, the second that allows you finer-grained control is very different from any other pattern used in the library.
```

While we continue to support this feature, it always had the potential to fail unexpectedly when the resulting batched AMQP message exceeded the size limit of the sender. To help with this, we now provide a safe way to batch multiple messages to be sent at once using the new `ServiceBusMessageBatch` class.

In the below code snippet, `inputMessageArray` is an array of messages which we will loop over to safely batch and then send.

```cs
ServiceBusMessageBatch messageBatch = await sender.CreateMessageBatchAsync();

for (var i = 0; i < inputMessageArray.Length; i++)
{
    if (!messageBatch.TryAddMessage(inputMessageArray[i]))
    {

>       if (messageBatch.Count == 0) {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      if (messageBatch.Count == 0) 
      {
```

        Console.WriteLine($"Failed to fit message number in a batch {i}");
        break;
      }

      // Decrement counter so that message number i can get another chance in a new batch

>       i = i - 1;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      i--;
```

      // send the message batch and create a new batch
      await sender.SendMessagesAsync(messageBatch);
      messageBatch.Dispose();
      messageBatch = await sender.CreateMessageBatchAsync();

>     } else if (i == inputMessageArray.Length) {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    } 
    else if (i == inputMessageArray.Length) 
    {
```

for (var i = 0; i < 10; i++)
{
    // create a message
    ServiceBusMessage message = new ServiceBusMessage($"Hello world! - {i}");

    // Add message the batch

>     var tryAddResult = messageBatch.TryAddMessage((message);

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

>     if (!tryAddResult)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    if (!messageBatch.TryAddMessage(message))
```

ServiceBusProcessor processor = client.CreateSessionProcessor(queueName);
```

> The below code snippet shows you the session variation of the "receiver". Please note that creating a session receiver is an async operation because the library will need to get a lock on the session by connecting to the service first.

Reviewer 3: why quotes?

Author: Wanted "receiver" and "processor" to get emphasized as different components than be termed as just another English word. Italics is better?

Reviewer 3: I think you can use the full type name and do code formatting then.

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/pull/14166/commits/2b526649efee8d5c8dd2331dee0397f4b2598a98

```cs
// create a receiver to receive events from the next available session

> ServiceBusSessionReceiver receiver = await client.CreateSessionReceiver(queueName);

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ServiceBusSessionReceiver receiver = await client.CreateSessionReceiverAsync(queueName);
```

// create a receiver to receive events from the given session
var options = new ServiceBusSessionReceiverOptions
{
    SessionId = "my-session"
};

> ServiceBusSessionReceiver receiver = await client.CreateSessionReceiver(queueName, options);

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ServiceBusSessionReceiver receiver = await client.CreateSessionReceiverAsync(queueName, options);
```
